---
layout: slide
title: Apr. 24 - PHIL 100 7 Page Paper
description: Logistics for the Final Paper
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### 7 Page Paper
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 14, Apr. 24

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Make Your Document

1. Open a new document in Word
2. Save the document with the name Lastname_Firstname_7PP.docx
3. Set all your formatting
  1. 12 point black Times New Roman font
  2. 1 inch margins
  3. Double spaced
4. Make sure AUTO SAVE options are turned on

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Break Down the Prompt

Remember to break down the prompt carefully.

1. Read the prompt once **all the way through**
2. Read the prompt a second time, dividing it into individual questions/tasks
3. Each individual part of the prompt corresponds to a section of your paper
4. Don't forget the Intro & Conclusion

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Make Your Outline

1. In bold text, type "Introduction" then hit enter
2. In bold text, type "Conclusion"
3. In between these two headers, write out **all** the questions and tasks you found in the prompt
  1. You will likely be able to combine questions/tasks into a handful of sections, but it's important for you to list out everything you need to do
4. Save your document

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Fill In Your Outline

Break down the questions and tasks you've written out further and start listing out things you want to argue or mention. It'll look a bit like this:

* Introduction
  * Thesis statement: In this paper I will argue...
  * Road map:
    * Talk about [topic]
    * Then talk about [another topic]
* Topic 1: Why is Physician-Assisted Suicide...
  * Mention how Kant, Mill, and Aristotle talk about what kind of act suicide is (cite)
  * Mention [moral issue] and cite [some article]
* Etc.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Send it to Me for Review (optional)

Once you are at the point where your outline is filled in a bit and you have an idea what you're arguing, I would **very highly** encourage you to send your outline for me to review.

**I can help you work out issues before they end up lowering your final grade.**

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Section 1: Introduction

Your Introduction should **at least** include 2 pieces:

1. Your **clearly indicated** thesis statement
2. A road map to your paper

This paper can include a bit more background information in the intro. However, this section of the paper should be no more than three quarters to one page long.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Your Introduction should **not** include:

* Filler phrases. This means phrases like:
  * "Since the dawn of time, mankind has pondered the question of..."
  * Other "catchy" opening sentences, poetry, metaphor, or unfalsifiable claims
  * These do not situate the paper as a rigorous academic paper
* "Context of discovery" references. This means no:
  * Descriptions of the order in which you thought things
  * What you were feeling when you thought them
  * Your current psychological state, or
  * Your speculation about how people might feel about your thoughts

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement

You're going to be writing your own thesis statements this time. Still, they should:

* Be **CLEARLY INDICATED** with indicating phrases like "I will argue..." or "I argue that..."
* Be narrow! You're picking the theory you think best captures the controversy and arguing why that theory is better than the other two.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Road Map

Don't forget to tell your readers exactly where your paper is going. First you're going to talk about [this topic]. Then [another topic]. etc.

[Check out the Week 9 Slides for a good example if you're not feeling confident about this.](http://www.philosofriends.com/slides/2020-03-27-week-9.html#/)

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Body of the paper

This time, you will be writing out your argument on your own. I won't be providing you with the sections you should include. This is your time to shine!

It's very important that you outline your paper very thoroughly. Doing so will help you understand your own argument better, and will help you write a **consistent** paper with a reasonable flow. It will also help you find issues in your argument (like contradicting yourself) before they become full-fledged problems.

This should be the longest part of the paper. You're aiming for about four to five pages for this section

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Objections to Your Argument

This section is standard. Even though it's not in the prompt, you are expected to explore at least one **strong** objection to **your** argument and then defend **your** argument against that objection. If you're struggling with this, email me and I can help you find a good objection or help you work out a defense.

**That said,** this is not the most important section of your paper and shouldn't be more than one to one and a half pages (two to three paragraphs).

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Conclusion

In your conclusion, simply wrap up the paper with a short summary of what you did - just like with the last paper.

[Check out the Week 9 Slides for a good example if you're not feeling confident about this.](http://www.philosofriends.com/slides/2020-03-27-week-9.html#/)

This section of the paper should be no more than one half to three quarters of a page long.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Works Cited

You may use outside resources for this paper, including information given on the prompt and from the website Shelley has linked.

Sources should be from reputable sources. If you're not sure it's a reputable source, it probably isn't. The SEP, the IEP, and Wikipedia are **not** reputable sources for the purposes of this paper.

You should include a Works Cited/Bibliography page for this assignment. You can use MLA, APA, or Chicago (name-date) citations styles. **Carefully cite direct quotes, paraphrasing, or any time you include information that is not common knowledge.**

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### DO's of 7PP

* Review Shelley's and my week 9 slides
* Cite parenthetically for direct quotes **and** paraphrased content
* Include a Works Cited page or Bibliography
* Check spelling and grammar
* Use section headers
* Follow directions from the prompt and my slides

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### DON'Ts of 5PP2

* Don't hesitate to email me with questions
* Don't hesitate to ask Shelley for an extension if you need one
* Don't hesitate to send me outlines to review before the deadline

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### On to Aristotle!

</section>
