---
layout: slide
title: Apr. 17 - PHIL 100 Kant
description: Kant
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Kant
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 12, Apr. 17

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics -- 5PP2

Feedback and initial grades on your second 5 page paper will be released by 8 am on Monday, April 20th.

Revisions will be due on Friday, April 24th by 11:59 pm.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics -- 7PP

The paper prompt for the 7 page paper has already been posted to Compass. We will go over the prompt next Friday. I will have very detailed slides for you for this paper.

Please feel free to take a look at the prompt early.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics -- Grades & Your Well-Being

We, meaning myself, Shelley, Robert, and Paul, don't want you to stress out about this class. Your health and safety should be your top priority.

At the same time, I understand that you might be concerned since this semester will still be factored into your academic progress. You've got a few options...

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 1 -- Ask Me For Help

I am happy to help you at any point in your writing process!

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 2 -- Grade Replacement

You may opt to have this course graded as Credit/No Credit. The deadline to make this request is **Thursday, April 30th**. To request this switch:

1. Alert Shelley (and me) that you'd like to make this switch.
2. Fill out the top portion of [this online form](https://las.illinois.edu/system/files/inline-files/Grade_Replacement_Request%20%282%29.pdf)
3. Sign the form, scan it, and send it to <las-studentoffice@illinois.edu>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 2 -- Grade Replacement Guidelines

* You must earn a C- or higher to get CR (credit)
* Grades under C- will receive NCR (no credit)
* If you make this switch, and get credit, the course will still count toward your major, minor, and general education requirements
* Courses taken for CR/NC are not included in any GPA calculations

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 2 -- Grade Replacement Special Notes

* Talk to me/Shelley first to check if this is a good option for you
* Talk to an advisor about how this might affect grad school apps
* **Don't use this option if:**
  * You need the credit to graduate and will earn a passing grade lower than C-
* **Check with the LAS Student Office for additional guidelines if:**
  * You are taking a course that is required to transfer to another major/school
  * You might be eligible for the Dean’s List or are a James Scholar

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 3 -- Dropping the Course

The deadline to drop this course is **Thursday, April 30th**. To request this switch:

1. Check if dropping is necessary with Shelley/me first
2. Check with your advisor to see if this is a good option for you
3. Log into Self Service and drop the course

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Option 2 -- Dropping the Course Special Notes

If dropping this course will take you below the minimum credit hours for "full time" status (12 credit hours), you'll have to submit an [Underload Request](https://apps.atlas.illinois.edu/FormBuilderSurvey/Survey/las_administration/student_academic_affairs/las_underload_request_form__for_continuing_students/). That request has to be approved before you can drop.

If you have F-1 or J-1 visa status, you will need to contact ISSS for a Reduced Course Load approval.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Normative Ethical Theory Breakdown

* Consequentialism: the morality of an act is determined by its consequences
* Deontology: the morality of an act is determined by the act itself
  * In other words, the act is good in itself; good without needing any other qualities to make it so
* Virtue Ethics: the morality of an act is determined by whether or not a virtuous person would do it

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Kant is a Deontologist

* Acts are good or bad in themselves
* Good acts are those that are universalizable
* If an act is good, we have a duty to do it
* If an act is bad, we have a duty not to do it

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### How do we decide what a "good" act is?

Kant has a 4 step process:

1. Work out a *maxim* (this is a principle that explains your intention)
2. Think of your maxim as a "universal law of nature" (this is a law that every rational agent would have to follow)
3. Imagine a world that *is* governed by this law and ask yourself if the people in that world would be able to understand and follow the law
4. Imagine *yourself* in that imaginary world and ask yourself if you'd will yourself to follow that maxim if you lived in that world

</section>

<section style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

<h3>Pump the breaks! Is Kant a cultural relativist?</h3>

<p>On the face of it, Kant's theory looks like we all get to determine for ourselves what morally good actions are just by doing a bit of mental gymnastics.</p>

<p>Why might that not be true?</p>

<p><small>Hint: Are there things that all cultures seem to think are "good" or "bad?"</small></p>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Connecting Duties and Moral Reasoning

* If the maxim you create passes all 4 steps of Kant's moral reasoning process, then you have a perfect duty to follow that maxim
* If your maxim passes steps 1 and 2, but fails at step 3, then you have a perfect duty *not* to follow that maxim
* If your maxim passes steps 1, 2, and 3, but fails at step 4, then you have an imperfect duty to follow that maxim

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What are perfect and imperfect duties?

Kant says we have two different kinds of duties:

* Perfect duties: something you *must always do*, no matter the situation
  * Perfect duties never yield to what Kant calls your "inclinations," by which he means natural desires; eating, sleeping, affection, etc.
  * Perfect duties are also called categorical imperatives
* Imperfect duties: something you *sometimes have to do*
  * Imperfect duties may sometimes yield to your inclinations and you wouldn't necessarily be doing something wrong

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Examples

* You have a perfect duty to always treat others as an end in themselves
* You have an imperfect duty to help others and to improve yourself

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What about all these morally grey areas?

There may be times when failing to fulfill a perfect duty results in consequences that we would think are "good." For instance, you might lie to a murderer at the door to protect your friend. You might steal someone else's property to feed your starving family. You may kill an enemy of your state to protect that state.

Can Kant account for these?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What about all these morally grey areas?

Many people think that Kant's theory is too demanding and cannot account for these situations. That makes people uncomfortable because, psychologically, it seems wrong for us to say that lying to protect someone from being murdered or killing one person to save five are morally wrong.

Kant says the very fact that we have this discomfort proves his point.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What about all these morally grey areas?

That we think of some situations as "morally grey" means that some part of us understands that the decisions we have to make in these situations are, in some way, either wrong, or not fully right.

In the trolley problem, Kant would pull that lever to save 5 people at the expense of 1. But Kant's theory explains that feeling we have when we make these types of decisions that we're going to have to live with what we've done.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### So what's all this stuff about good will?

Good will is acting from duty and no other motive. You do what is right because it is right. You do not do what is wrong because it is wrong. Your actions are not motivated by reward (e.g., pay, prizes, good fortune, your own happiness).

That does not mean that your actions cannot bring you pleasure or reward; it means only that the pleasure or reward you received was not what motivated you to act.

</section>
