---
layout: slide
title: Feb. 21 - PHIL 100 Five Page Paper 1
description: Writing a one page paper
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Five Page Paper 1
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 5, Feb. 21

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Objectives

* Understand the point of Cartesian Skepticism
* Cover the 5 page paper prompt
* Go over the grading rubric

</section>

<section>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MLKrmw906TM" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</section>

<section data-markdown>

### So, what's the point of all this weird doubt?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Document Layout

* Submit in .doc or .docx format
* 1 inch margins, all around
* 12 point font, black, **Times or Times New Roman**

</section>

<section style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

<h3>Five Page Paper 1 - Instructions</h3>

You must respond to this question:

<p style="font-size: 20px;">In “Natural Theology,” William Paley gives us an argument for the existence of God that is often referred as the “argument for intelligent design.”  What is this argument?  Make sure to explain how Paley sees the conclusion as following from the premises.  How do you think Hume, given what we find in the Dialogues concerning Natural Religion, would respond (in the character’s voice) to Paley’s argument?  (You need not give every objection.  It is sufficient to explain the ones that you think are the strongest.)  How do you think Pascal, given what we find in “The Wager,” would respond to Hume?  How do you respond to Pascal’s argument?  Given all the arguments and objections, what do you think is reasonable to believe about the existence of God?  Make sure to fully explain and give reasons for your answer.</p>

You are not required to complete research or use resources outside of the PBF text for your argument.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Citation Style

If you use quotes from the PBF book (and you should expect that you will), please use either the **Chicago** or **MLA** citation style to make your in-text citations.

Examples:

* Chicago: (Perry, Bratman, and Fischer 2015, 47)
* MLA: (Perry et al. 27)

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Submission Guidelines

* Due: Saturday, February 29 by 11:59 PM
* Submit a .doc or .docx file to SafeAssign
  * Papers submitted as a comment will not receive credit
* Name the file **Lastname_Firstname_5PP1.doc** (or .docx)
  * Example: Bruckler_Sarah_5PP1.docx

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### SAFEASSIGN SPECIAL NOTE

Screenshot your submission confirmation message/page on Compass! 

This is insurance in case Compass tells you your paper submitted successfully but it didn't really.

**This is important. We have had issues with this in the past. Without this screenshot, we cannot give you credit if this happens to you.**

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Grading Rubric

You will be graded on 5 separate criteria:

1. Thesis Statement
2. Main Argument & Paper Structure
3. Objections & Replies
4. Grammar & Spelling
5. Follows Directions

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Thesis Statement

Your thesis statement is very important!

* It start with something like "In this paper, I will argue..."
* Do not use the words "personally," "opinion," or "I believe" in your thesis statement
* It should make a simple, clear claim that you can defend

Write out your premises and conclusion! Once your argument structure is clear, you can write a very clear thesis statement.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Main Argument & Paper Structure

Remember that your main argument should follow a roadmap. You must show why people ought to take your conclusion as true by giving clear, defensible premises.

Again, write out your premises and conclusion! This will help you find a logical flow of your argument and help your readers see how the conclusion follows from your premises.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Objections & Replies

You must write out a clear **and serious** possible objection to your own argument, and then show why that objection does not hold. Take this seriously, it is standard practice in philosophy.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Grammar & Spelling

You are encouraged to make an appointment with the Writer's Workshop to have someone review your paper for spelling and grammar mistakes. The website to make an appointment is https://writersworkshop.illinois.edu. 

Remember that Academic English is its own dialect. It is difficult to write in Academic English, even when English is your first language. No matter how well you write, or think you write, you will benefit from having someone else read your paper and check for spelling and grammar mistakes.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Five Page Paper 1 - Follows Directions

You will be graded on whether you:

1. Respond to the question given in the assignment prompt
2. Follow the directions in the rubric
3. Name your file correctly
4. Set up your document layout correctly
5. Submit your paper by the deadline

These are super easy points to get - please make sure you are carefully reading the prompt and following the instructions written there. 

The prompt is final. If you spot a difference in these slides and the prompt, refer to the prompt!

</section>