---
layout: slide
title: PHIL 100 Summaries
description: Learning about summaries and the parts of an argument
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Summarizing & Understanding Arguments
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 2, Jan. 31

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### QCCRs for Participation

* QCCR stands for Question, Comment, Critique, or Reflection
* You will do 2 QCCRs each week, on Monday & Wednesday
* QCCRs are due by 5 PM each Thursday we have class
* **QCCRs should be no more than 1 to 2 sentences in length**

An assignment prompt will be emailed to everyone this afternoon. I will begin requiring you to turn this in next week (i.e., your first QCCRs are due no later than 5 PM on Thursday, February 6).

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Objectives

By the end of class today, you will:
* Understand how to write good summaries
* Identify the differences between a summary and abstract
* Define the major parts of a formal argument
* Understand why arguments should be valid, sound, and persuasive
* Differentiate between:
  * Necessary and sufficient conditions
  * _A priori_ and _a posteriori_ knowledge
  * Necessary and contingent truths

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Figuring out Summaries

* What is a summary?
* How long should a summary really be?
* Why does Bedau say to restrict direct quotations in summaries?
* Do you always have to keep your summary to 1 - 2 sentences per paragraph?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Figuring out Summaries

* Summaries are concise accounts of the main points of arguments
* _Roughly_ 1/3 of the length of the work summarized
* Summaries should be written in your own words
* In general, 1 - 2 sentences per paragraph will be ok
  * Complex paragraphs may require more sentences

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Summary Activity 1

* Everyone split into groups of 4
  * One group will have 3
* As a group, figure out what the main points of Russell's argument
* When we come back together, each group will share what they've learned

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Summary Activity 2

On your own, write a short reflection on your summary. Think about these things:
* Were there any main points you were surprised to hear from your classmates?
* Did you find it difficult to paraphrase Russell's argument? Why or why not?
* If you could do this assignment over again, what would you change about your summary?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Abstracts

* What is an abstract?
* When should you use an abstract instead of a summary?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Abstracts

* Abstracts are very short summaries that focus on the "essence" of an argument (Bedau, p. 17)
* Think of the difference between abstracts and summaries this way:
  * An _abstract_ is like a destination overview
  * A _summary_ is like a roadmap
* Use an abstract when you want to give someone a general view of the overall argument
* Use summaries when you want to explain how an author got to a particular conclusion

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Arguments

* What is an argument?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

An argument is a combination of statements in which some statements are meant to provide support for another statement.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Parts of an Argument

* What are the three parts of an argument?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

**Premise:**
A statement that provides support (reasons) for a particular conclusion.

**Inference:**
A psychological phenomenon that links a premise to a conclusion. When your arguments are good, people will more easily infer your conclusion from your premises.

**Conclusion:**
A statement, supported by premises, that something is or is not the case.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Argument Activity 1

Here is a conclusion: 

"If I feed grapes to my dog, she will be poisoned."

* What are some premises that would support this conclusion?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Argument Activity 2

Here is a premise: 

"When I buy flowers for my partner, they smile."

* What can we infer from this premise?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Argument Activity 3

Here is are two premises: 

"If Sarah likes pecans, then she will like pecan pie."

"Sarah does not like pecan pie."

* What is the most likely conclusion these premises support?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Validity

A deductive argument is valid if it is impossible for its premises to be true and its conclusion false. Otherwise, it is invalid.

* Why does having a valid argument matter?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Soundness

A deductive argument is sound if it is both valid, and all of its premises are true. Otherwise, it is unsound.

* Why does having a sound argument matter?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Persuasiveness and Fallacies

Why isn't the argument "God exists. Therefore, god exists." persuasive?

Why should arguments be persuasive?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

What are some fallacies not described in the reading?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

* Ad hominem: attacking the person, not their argument
* Appeal to tradition: claiming your argument is right because things have always been done that way
* Appeal to people: claiming an argument is wrong or right based on whether or not it is what most people believe
* Appeal to authority: claiming that something is right because an authority figure said so
* Appeal to emotion: attempting to prove your argument is right because of the feelings it causes in people

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Necessary and Sufficient Conditions

**Necessary conditions:** A necessary condition must be present for an event to occur, but does not provide sufficient cause to produce the event.

**Sufficient conditions:** A sufficient condition is a condition or set of conditions that will produce an event.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Necessary Condition Example

The presence of oxygen on a planet is necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the existence of human life.

* Why do you think this condition is not sufficient?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Sufficient Condition Example

Being a product of 3 consecutive numbers (e.g., 4*5*6) is a sufficient, but not necessary, condition for being divisible by 3.

* Why do you think this condition is not necessary?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### A priori and a posteriori

* Knowledge that is _a priori_ is knowledge that can be gained through reason
  * In other words, such knowledge can be know _prior_ to experience

* Knowledge that is _a posteriori_ is knowledge that can be gained through experience
  * In other words, such knowledge can be gained _post_ experience

What are some examples of _a priori_ and _a posteriori_ knowledge in your own lives?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Necessary and Contingent Truth

* A necessary truth is true and could not have been false
  * An unmarried man is a bachelor

* A contingent truth is something that is true but could have been false
  * The rapid climate changes seen after the start of the industrial revolution are caused primarily by human activities

</section>