---
layout: slide
title: Feb. 07 - PHIL 100 Schematization
description: Learning about theses and argument schematization
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Thesis Statements & Argument Schemas
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 3, Feb. 07

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Some quick notes (1)

* Argument by analogy is a valid argument form, *provided that the analogy being drawn is relevant*

Example: A truck uses fuel. Rockets also use fuel. From this:

* We **can** argue that, because both trucks and rockets use fuel, both trucks and rockets use combustion for propulsion.
* We **cannot** argue that, because both trucks and rockets use fuel, both trucks and rockets have the power to travel to the moon.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Some quick notes (2)

*A priori* knowledge is any knowledge gained by reason. Definitions are easy examples to give of *a priori* knowledge, but *a priori* knowledge is not just tied to definitions of things. A lot of theoretical knowledge, such as the existence of prime numbers, is *a priori* knowledge.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Some quick notes (3)

* What are we learning in this class?

In this class, you're learning the philosophical method. This method will give you skills you can rely on to think critically, question responsibly, and learn more about yourself, others, and the world around you. To do this, you will read *a lot* of arguments. Then you'll be asked to explain the arguments to others in your own words. You'll be asked to think up objections or ways to support these arguments. Finally, you'll be asked to generate your own arguments.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Objectives

By the end of class today, you will:
* Understand the importance of structured arguments in philosophy
* Pick out thesis statements from arguments
* Gain experience schematizing arguments in preparation for your essays

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Why does argument structure matter?

* Structured arguments are easier to understand
* Structured arguments are more persuasive
* Structured arguments are more defensible

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Validity and Soundness matter, too

The terms "valid" and "sound" (as well as "strong" and "cogent") are *success terms:* when you show your audience that your argument is valid and sound, you also show them that your argument is successful.

On the contrary, if someone objects to your argument by showing it is invalid or unsound, they are showing your audience that your argument fails.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 1

* Everyone split into groups
* As a group, discuss Paley's "Natural Theology"
* What is the thesis?
* Schematize Paley's argument

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 1

**Thesis:** If something is constructed such that it exhibits an end, a purpose, a contrivance, a design, then there must be a designer.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 1

1. If something is constructed such that it exhibits an end, a purpose, a contrivance, a design, then there must be a designer.
2. A watch exhibits an end, a purpose, a contrivance, a design.
3. Therefore, the watch has a designer.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 2

* Everyone split into groups
* As a group, discuss the following excerpt and determine what the thesis is...

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: justify; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 2

In chapter eleven of *The Ethics of Immigration,* Joseph Carens argues that liberal democratic nation-states (hereafter “nation-states”) have a moral obligation to open their borders. Carens grounds his argument in a number of presuppositions, one of which is that nation-states have complete legal jurisdiction over all territories within their borders. In this paper, I argue that this presupposition is sometimes false, and when it is the case that this presupposition is false, Carens’ argument in favor of open borders is open to relevant objections. Specifically, I will show that when nation-states include enclave territories over which they have limited jurisdiction, opening their borders will maintain oppressive structures over the enclave territories and swap one group harmed (the global poor) for another (members of the enclave territory).

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 3

* Everyone split into groups
* As a group, discuss the following excerpt and determine what the thesis is...

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: justify; font-size: 30px;">

### Thesis Statement Activity 3

In the current study, the goal is to determine whether PCOS has a statistically significant effect on BMD, and if so, whether that effect is systemic. To answer these questions, the investigators use total body dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) scans to gather data about body composition and BMD. This data can be used to compare total body, head, and vault BMD (head excluding teeth) to determine whether there is a significant difference in BMD of these regions between test and control group members. This research also allows the investigators to confirm whether vault BMD is affected by load­bearing or not. If cranial vault BMD is not affected by load-bearing, but does exhibit a significant difference in BMD when comparing the test and control group subjects, it would suggest that the effect of PCOS on the skeleton is systemic rather than localized to load-bearing areas of the skeleton.

</section>

<section data-markdown>

# Time for Discussion!

</section>