---
layout: slide
title: Apr. 03 - PHIL 100 Cultural Relativism
description: Cultural Relativism
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Free Will
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 10, Apr. 03

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### A Point of Clarification from a Boasian

The notion of cultural relativism in anthropology does **not** suggest that there there is **no** right or wrong.

Rather, it is **a methodology** that asserts that cultures ought to be **understood** in terms of their own cultural histories, values, morals, and unique geographical circumstances. The distinction between **understood** and **evaluated (i.e., morally judged)** is often lost outside of anthropology.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Cultural Relativism gained a foothold in anthropology through [Franz Boas](https://daily.jstor.org/the-life-and-times-of-franz-boas/). He developed the method of cultural relativism to challenge ethnocentric ideology rampant in anthropology during the time he was doing work.

Boas argued, in contrast to his ethnocentric colleagues, that all cultures were equally developed (i.e., neither "advanced" nor "primitive") and that differences between cultures could be explained as a complex response to historical, social, and geographical factors.

That some terrible cultural practice can be **ethnographically explained** by studying the unique internal and external factors that created it does not mean that a person studying that practice can't find the practice reprehensible.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Boas was a Jewish man from Germany. He was deeply, vocally, and **passionately** anti-racist, anti-Nazi, anti-Eugenics, and over time, became stringently pro-feminist. He:

* Protected German Jewish scientists escaping Nazi Germany,
* Accepted women of color into his classes and program, and
* Supported his students' anti-racist and pro-feminist work

He was the teacher and mentor of some of the biggest names in race-critical and feminist scholarship in the twentieth century, including Zora Neale Hurston, Margaret Mead, Ella Cara Deloria, and Ruth Benedict.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Boas' theories have problems, as all theories do, but I can assure you, passionately, that Franz Boas would never commit himself to the notion of cultural relativism that philosophers tend to (rightfully) challenge.

In anthropology, the concept that we are critiquing today is called "moral relativism," and anthropologists have the same problems with it that philosophers have. Why? Because the majority of anthropologists definitely think things like racism, female genital cutting and other sexist practices, homophobia, transphobia, Nazism, and genocide are **objectively morally wrong**.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

One reason that I seek to make this distinction clear is that Rachels misrepresents anthropology, and in so doing, misrepresents cultural practices.

For instance, polygyny was not actually common among the Inuit, nor did they "share" their wives as a simple courtesy to any stranger that came into their home. Some Inuit couples engaged in co-marriages with another couple. It was expected that the men in these co-marriages would bond not just with their wives, but with each other. When singular wives were shared, it was part of a religious rite between tribes.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Now, we can say that the ritual sharing of wives was and is morally wrong because it denies women their right to freewill and bodily autonomy. What we can't say is that the Inuit, as a whole, are morally inferior to us because they have practices that are, objectively, morally wrong.

This is especially true when you remember that European women were often traded off for political and economic gain, and infanticide, while usually socially stigmatized, happened often enough in European cultures that there are recorded methods for covering it up.

If you're interested in this, I would recommend reading [Horace Miner's "Body Ritual Among the Nacirema"](/docs/nacirema.pdf).

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### The Bad Cultural Relativism

1. Different societies have different moral codes.
2. Therefore, there is no universal truth in ethics. That is, there are no moral truths that hold for all peoples at all times.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Why Rachels' Version of Cultural Relativism is Bad

1. If Rachels' characterization of cultural relativism is right, we would not be able to morally criticize the behaviors of other societies.
2. We would determine what is right or wrong simply by looking at our culture, even if our culture has some terrible practice
3. We couldn't claim that moral progress is possible - in other words, we couldn't say that some change in practice is morally better than it ways
4. If our society determines what is morally right, and we have to deny that moral progress is possible, then there is no way for us to reform our society - we would have to commit ourselves to holding that our society is morally correct as it is

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 28px;">

### Questions

1. Can cultural relativism support anything?
2. How do we tell right from wrong? Is it simply the prevailing notions in the world at any given time?
3. Are there any universal concepts all cultures can agree on?
4. Does scientific research need to follow the moral standards of society?
5. Why is sharing moral codes across cultural relativism a counter example to CR?
6. Are there other philosophically weak arguments like Rachels' form of CR that are popular?
7. How do we know when things are objectively true or false?
8. If Rachels' CR is right and we can't morally judge another society, could there be other ways to judge their practices? Like economically, pragmatically, etc.
9. When do we set the limit on what we can question and what we can accept to be true based on evidence?
10. Why is this view so popular?

</section>
