---
layout: slide
title: Feb. 14 - PHIL 100 One Page Paper
description: Writing a one page paper
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### One Page Papers
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 4, Feb. 14

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">
### Objectives

* Answer any questions/concerns about the one page paper
* Have at least an outline for the paper by the end of class
* Discuss Monday & Wednesday Lectures

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### One Page Paper (OPP) - Document Structure

* One page, single spaced
* 1 inch margins
* 12 pt **black** font
* Font choices: Times/Times New Roman, Calibri, Arial

**Using LibreOffice or OpenOffice?**

* Liberation Serif or Liberation Sans are acceptable alternative fonts

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### One Page Paper (OPP) - Instructions (Paragraph 1)

In paragraph 1, you should: 

* Explain or give the schematization the argument
* This explanation/schematization should be in the form of **prose**
* You should show how the premises of the argument lead to its conclusion

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### One Page Paper (OPP) - Instructions (Paragraph 2)

In paragraph 2, you should: 

* Critically evaluate the argument (on the assignment prompt)
* The assignment prompt has example questions for you

</section>

<section style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

<h3>One Page Paper (OPP) - Instructions (Special Note)</h3>

You only have to respond to the paragraph Shelley provided in the assignment prompt:

<p style="font-size: 20px;">“Not to lose any time in circumlocutions, said Cleanthes, addressing himself to Demea, much less in replying to the pious declamations of Philo; I shall briefly explain how I conceive this matter.  Look round the world: Contemplate the whole and every part of it: You will find it to be nothing but one great machine, subdivided into an infinite number of lesser machines, which again admit of subdivisions, to a degree beyond what human senses and faculties can trace and explain.  All these various machines and even their, and even their most minute parts, are adjusted to each other with an accuracy, which ravishes into admiration all men, who have ever contemplated them.  The curious adapting of means to ends, throughout all nature, resembles exactly, though it much exceeds, the productions of human contrivance; of human design, thought, wisdom, and intelligence.  Since therefore the effects resemble each other, we are led to infer, by all the rules of analogy, that the causes also resemble; and that the Author of nature is somewhat similar to the mind of [human beings]; though possessed of much larger faculties, proportioned to the grandeur of the work, which he[/she] has executed.  By this argument a posteriori, and by this argument alone, so we prove at once the existence of a Deity, and his similarity to human mind and intelligence” (PBF, 57).</p>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### One Page Paper (OPP) - Submission Guidelines

* Due: Sunday, February 16 by 5:00 PM
* Submit a .doc or .docx file to SafeAssign
  * Papers submitted as a comment will not receive credit
* Name the file **Lastname_Firstname_OPP1.doc** (or .docx)
  * Example: Bruckler_Sarah_OPP1.docx

If you use Google Docs, LibreOffice, OpenOffice, etc., make sure you save your file as a .doc or .docx before turning it in!

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### One Page Paper (OPP) - SPECIAL NOTE

Screenshot your submission confirmation message/page on Compass! 

This is insurance in case Compass tells you your paper submitted successfully but it didn't really.

**This is important. We have had issues with this in the past. Without this screenshot, we cannot give you credit if this happens to you.**

</section>

<section data-markdown>

# Free Write Time

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Discussion Activity - Buzz Groups

* Break into small groups (3 - 4 people)
* I will pass out some questions from the QCCRs
* With your group, generate an idea, argument, or answer to your group's question
* Each group will present their question and their idea/argument/answer

</section>