---
layout: slide
title: Mar. 06 - PHIL 100 Free Will
description: Do we have free will?
theme: simple
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

#### Free Will
###### PHIL 100 AD1 & AD7 -- Week 7, Mar. 06

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics: Draft Paper

* Grades will be available by Monday, March 9
* If you do not submit a draft by Sunday, March 8, you will receive a zero
* If you fail to submit a draft, you will only be able to make up to 50 pts on the revision
* Late papers lose 1/3 of a grade for each day they are late (i.e., an A turns to an A-)
  * If you were granted an extension, you can ignore this last point

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics: Paper Revision

* Revisions are due by 11:59 pm, Friday, March 13 through SafeAssign
* You can make up half the points you lost on the first draft
  * Ex: If you get an 80 on the draft, you can get up to a 90 after the revision
* No revision? Lose 10 pts

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Logistics: What is a revision?

1. During grading, I leave extensive comments on your paper and explain points lost
2. You read my comments, and revise your paper using my suggestions
3. You write a short paragraph at the end of your revised paper reflecting on your revisions (what changes were made and where)
4. ???
5. Profit

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Free Will

* What is it?
* Do we have it?
* Why should we care?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Free Will - What is it?

* In technical terms, a person has free will if they are a _causal agent_.
* In other words, you have free will if you can:
  * Set your own ends,
  * Bring about (produce) those ends, and
  * Be responsible for the consequences of bringing about those ends

</section>

<section>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/ldoHL6A-Z-E" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Free Will Activity 1

Take a few minutes to write a short paragraph answering these questions:

* Do you think it's true that Daisy's leg wouldn't be broken if just one thing that day had changed?
* Does the narrator's conclusion that we don't have free will actually follow from his premises?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Free Will Activity 2

As a group, we'll create a causal chain.

* Person 1 starts with a simple activity like "I got out of bed"
* Person 2 then follows up with an action they think would follow

Appropriate real-world actions only, please.

</section>

<section data-markdown>

### Were your actions chosen freely, or determined by the actions listed before yours?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Free Will Theories

I added individual slides explaining each theory in more detail.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Determinism

Determinists argue that we _**do not**_ have free will. Because we are not causal agents that can set our own ends, the determinist will argue that we will always do whatever it is we were predestined, fated, or coerced to do. What determines our actions depends on the particular flavor of determinism; some determinists may think that a god of some sort has predetermined our paths, while other determinists might argue that it is our culture or particular social pressures that cause us to act as we do.

On the determinist view, freedom/freewill and moral responsibility are _**not**_ reconcilable. The determinist will argue that some other concept is needed to figure out moral responsibility.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Compatibilism

Compatibilists argue that determinism is true _**but**_ we are also causal agents; we have the freedom to pick out the actions and ends we want from a range of predetermined options. Think of it like going to a restaurant: you can choose any option you want from the menu, but the menu is determined by the chef. As to what determines the range of options we can choose from, compatibilists argue that there are any number of external forces (e.g., social pressures, etc.) or internal forces (e.g., emotional/physical barriers, etc.) that determine the range of options we can choose from.

On the compatibilist view, freedom/freewill and moral responsibility _**are**_ reconcilable.

</section>

<section style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

<h3>Libertarianism</h3>

<p>Libertarians argue that we are <em><b>always</b></em> causal agents that can freely choose what actions to take and what ends to make. Libertarians are not necessarily committed to saying that nothing in the universe is determined, so they can account for things like natural processes, chemical reactions, etc. Rather, libertarians think <em><b>human actions</b></em> are not determined.</p>

<p>On the libertarian view, freedom/freewill and moral responsibility <em><b>are</b></em> reconcilable.</p>

<p style="font-size: 18px;">Remember that this kind of libertarianism is not the same thing as the political libertarianism we see today. Political libertarianism is concerned with more than just whether or not we have free will and can be held morally responsible.</p>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Which theory is right?

* **Question for Determinists:** If someone has no free will, can they be held responsible for what they do?
* **Question for Compatibilists:** If we are only sometimes causal agents, how do we tell when we are and are not responsible for our actions?
* **Question for Libertarians:** If we are always causal agents, how do we make sense of clear examples of coercion?

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What's at stake?

As we have seen, the question whether and to what extent we have free will is complicated. So why should we care?

Why does it matter in the real world, for real people, whether or not free will exists and to what extent we have it?

**See added slide after this for more info**

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### What's at stake?

We want to hold others accountable, and be held accountable ourselves, for moral and legal transgressions. Whether and how we can hold others accountable for their transgressions depends our conception of free will, and the robustness of that conception.

</section>
