---
layout: slide
title: Jan. 29 - PHIL 104 (ACP) Welcome
description: A presentation about the course syllabus and assignments
theme: black
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

## Welcome

### PHIL 104 - Intro to Ethics (ACP)

### Week 1

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### About Me

**Name:** Sarah Bruckler

**Please Call Me:** Sarah

**Pronouns:** she/her or they/them

**Office Hours:** Mon. & Thurs. 1:00 pm - 2:00 pm

**Email:** sarahkb4@illinois.edu

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Zoom Policy

- You are expected to keep your video on during discussion
- You will be marked absent for the day if your video is off

Email me ASAP if you require accommodations for this policy.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Attendance

- Attendance is required and will be tracked
- If you need to miss class, email me before class to let me know
- If you are in a timezone outside of those in the continental US, email me to discuss accommodations

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Participation

Participation is required and will be tracked with short reflections.

Reflections should:

- Be 3 to 6 sentences in length (no more, no less)
- Be focused on course content or that day's discussion
- Include **_either_** a question, a comment, a critique, **_or_** a reflection

Reflections are due by 11:59 pm each Friday that we meet.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Participation, continued

Along with reflections, "participation" includes the following activities:

- Being prepared for class
- Completing assignments
- Speaking in class
- Answering polls
- Coming to office hours

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### 11 Short Writing Assignments

Grading criteria:

- You completed the assignment
- You made a good-faith effort to follow the assignment instructions

These assignments are roughly 15% of your total grade.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Essay 1

- Consists of 2 parts: first draft and revision
- Graded based on a rubric that is (or will be) available on Compass
- Is worth 20 pts, or ~20% of your grade

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Essay 2

- Consists of 2 parts: first draft and revision
- Graded based on the same rubric as essay 1
- Is worth 30 pts, or ~30% of your grade

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Note on Revisions

You **_must_** complete both the first draft and a revision!

Revisions can bump your total essay grade by _a lot_. Imagine you get 15 pts on your essay 1 first draft, or a letter grade of C. You can make up to 2.5 pts on your revision, which can bump your essay 1 grade up to a letter grade of B+.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Final Essay

- Takes the place of a final exam
- Graded based on the same rubric as essay 1
- Is worth 25 pts, or ~25% of your grade

There is no option to revise your final to improve your grade.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Tests/Exams

There are no tests or exams. Your essays take the place of midterm/final exams.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Late Work

Late papers will lose one-half of a grade (e.g., from A to A-) for each day late. Late penalties incurred by the first version of a paper will be applied to the rewrite. (See the Syllabus.)

Up to six late reflections will be accepted throughout the semester if they are turned in within 24 hours of the original deadline.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Extensions

- Extensions of no more than 48 hours can be granted for the first and revised drafts of essays 1 and 2
- Extensions of no more than 24 hours for reflections
- Extensions **_are not_** available for final essays

If you need an extension, let me know as soon as possible _before_ the deadline for that assignment.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Accommodations

Despite the general tone of these slides, I'm pretty accommodating. Email me if you're having any issues in this course and I **_will_** work with you.

If you have a DRES accommodations letter, please send it to me asap.

</section>
