---
layout: slide
title: Jan. 29 - PHIL 104 (ACP) Welcome
description: A presentation about the course syllabus and assignments
theme: black
transition: slide
---

<section data-markdown>

## Short Essay Tips

### PHIL 104 - Intro to Ethics (ACP)

### Week 5

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Breaking down the prompt

Your paper should have the following sections:

1. Introduction paragraph (with thesis!)
2. Summary paragraphs
3. Argument paragraphs
4. Conclusion section

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Special note

You can (and should) use your own words for your intro, thesis statement, and conclusion. The templates I provide are just meant to help kickstart your writing process and give you a general idea of how to structure your paper.

</section>

<section data-markdown>

## Intro tips

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Your Introduction should include 2 pieces:

1. Your thesis statement
2. A road map to your paper

Intros should make up no more than 15% of the total length of your essay. Aim for 50 - 125 words.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Your intro should **always include** your thesis statement.

- Be the **very first** sentence of your paper
- Have the following sentence structure:

I argue [add your argument here].

</section>

<section style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

<p>Example thesis from last semester:</p>

<p>"I argue that neither of Singer's principles are persuasive in light of other, more moderate principles of justice found in other theories, such as Rawls' maximin principle."</p>

<p><small>(Please note that this thesis was developed by a philosophy major who asked to deviate somewhat from the prompt. Your papers <strong>should not</strong> refer to theorists other than Singer, Thomson, or Marquis.)</small></p>

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

The "road map" part of your intro should tell your audience what they should expect as they read the rest of your paper.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

**Template road map**

To support my argument, I will first **[do A (usually summarize the argument you're responding to)]**. Then, I will **[do B (usually explain what you think is good or bad about the argument you just summarized)]**. I will also **[do C (usually summarize your own argument)]**, then **[do D (usually explain why or how your argument works, or why your argument matters)]**. I then address **[some objection someone might have to your argument]** Finally, I will conclude by **[doing e, where e is something like "providing a summary of my arguments," etc.]**.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

Your Introduction should **not** include:

- Filler phrases like:
  - "Catchy" openings (e.g. "Since the dawn of time...", etc.)
  - Hasty generalizations (e.g., "Most philosophers think...", etc.)
- "Context of discovery" references like:
  - Descriptions of the order in which you thought things
  - What you were feeling when you thought them
  - Your current psychological state, or
  - Your speculation about how people might feel about your thoughts

These types of phrases are a waste of time and only serve to undermine your authority as an author.

</section>

<section data-markdown>

### Summary Tips

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

- Read or re-read Bedau's instructions for summaries
- To conserve space, you should only summarize the parts of a reading you'll be responding to (e.g.,Singer's two principles, Thomson's analogies, etc.)

</section>

<section data-markdown>

### Argument Tips

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

- Explain **both** what your argument is **and** why/how it works
- Always "steelman" your opponent. This means to:
  - Assume they have the best intentions
  - Grant them the most charitable reading you can give them
  - Respond to an author's strongest points
  - Refrain from using fallacies to respond to an author, even if they are themselves using fallacious reasoning.

You can find a good list of fallacies to look out for (and avoid) on [Purdue University's Online Writing Lab](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/general_writing/academic_writing/logic_in_argumentative_writing/fallacies.html).

</section>

<section data-markdown>

### Conclusion Tips

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

In your conclusion, simply wrap up the paper with a short summary of what you did. It will look like this:

I argued that **[restate your thesis]**. To do so, I explained **[brief summary of what you thought was wrong with the argument you responded to]**. I then provided my own arguments critically evaluating **[that view]**, showing that it **[is/is not persuasive/successful]** because of **[x, y, and z reasons]**.

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Citation Instructions

You do need to use parenthetical citations in this paper. No specific style is required. If you're not sure how to cite in any given style, default to this form of citation: (Author's Lastname, YYYY; p. #).

Purdue University's Online Writing Lab has a great guide for best practices for avoiding plagiarism. You can find that guide here: [https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/avoiding_plagiarism/best_practices.html](https://owl.purdue.edu/owl/avoiding_plagiarism/best_practices.html).

</section>

<section data-markdown style="text-align: left; font-size: 30px;">

### Document Formatting Instructions

- Remember to **follow directions carefully**!
  - Submit a .doc or .docx file - **pdfs will not be accepted!**
  - Double-space your paragraphs
  - Set all margins to 1 inch
  - Use 12 point sans serif font in black
  - Name the file Lastname_Firstname_Essay-1.docx

Most professors and TA's will expect you to write your papers using Times New Roman. I ask that you use a sans-serif font like Calibri or Arial because they are easier for me to read.

</section>
